## Generating fonts keys
Hello there - In this course we are going to generate code to deal with custom fonts in your application.

Dealing with custom fonts has always been quite frustrating for iOS developer: adding them to the project is confusing, sometimes you’re not using the right font name because it differs from the name of the file, etc..

Fonts don’t change often. The designer who created your app will rarely come to you saying “I changed some parts of the font to make the ligatures more ligatury, you’ll find the new fonts in the shared drive”.

It’s usually a one-time thing, until the customer wants a different font and you have to adjust everything. For that reason, even if you don’t decide to rely on SwiftGen, you should have some kind of Stylesheet class that contains at least the style for your titles, your buttons, etc..

So why are we advocating for using SwiftGen for fonts as well?

It’s simple: the generated code will make your life easier, on top of no longer having to worry about the font name being invalid.

(In Xcode)

If you open the Xcode project and look at the `fonts` folder, you’ll see we’ve embedded the Lato fonts, a font that I particularly like.

What we are going to do is use the Italic style of the lato font to highlight the name of the social network in the description.

First, let's have a look at the SwiftGen command.

Run `Pods/Swiftgen/bin/swiftgen fonts —help`

It shouldn't surprise you that the command works the same way that the previous one did: it expect a path to the folder containing your fonts, a template (we'll use swift4) and a path where the generated code will be written in.

 Run `Pods/SwiftGen/bin/swiftgen fonts -t swift4 --output RW-SwiftGen-SocialProfiles/Generated/Fonts.swift RW-SwiftGen-SocialProfiles/Resources/Fonts`

(In Xcode)

Go back to Xcode and add the generated Fonts.swift into your project, then builds the application to make sure everything is still working properly.

Then, open the `Fonts.swift` file and let's take a look at it.

The first few lines are fairly similar to what we’ve seen with assets during the previous video: it creates a `Font` typealias so the generated code works for both iOS and macOS.

Then, it generated a `FontConvertible` struct that represent a font and manages two very important things: getting an instance of the font at a specific size but also automatically registering the font if you forgot to include the font in your application.

Finally, it created a `FontFamily` that contains another enum named for each font family, even if in our case that’s only Lato. This `Lato` enum exposes all the styles for our font.

Go back to the `ProfileViewController.swift` file and replace the `UIFont`we use with the one generated by SwiftGen.

```swift
/// Use the proper font using Swiftgen's generated list of font
let prettyContent = NSMutableAttributedString(string: profile.content, attributes: [.font: FontFamily.Lato.regular.font(size: 14)])
let range = (profile.content as NSString).range(of: profile.name)
if range.location != NSNotFound {
    prettyContent.addAttribute(.font, value: FontFamily.Lato.boldItalic.font(size: 14), range: range)
}
```

As an exercise, you can try to play with the other fonts!

That’s it for this section of the course. SwiftGen is now providing us with a type-safe way - and, let’s be honest, a very pretty API - to deal with the fonts contained in our application.

In the next section, we’ll cover and conclude how to use SwiftGen to deal with Localization!
